In this end of chapter review exercise,
we're going to combine
the 2 previous ones,
or the creation of a CDI bean and
the use of it in a client class,
and the creation of a JPA
entity and the use of that one,
using the Panache extension.
Going to start by using lab
implement-review start script,
which populates our lab exercise
directory with just a couple of files.
So if we have a look at
DO378/labs/implement-review,
we can see there's a
prepared directory in it,
which actually contains only 2 files.
We're going to return to the Speaker.
java file a little bit later,
whereas the other one is simply
an end of exercise grading tests,
which is used to ensure that
everything implemented in this
exercise works correctly.
There is no project because we
are going to create it right now
using the create goal of
the quarkus-maven-plugin.
So we're going to invoke Maven with the
fully qualified name of the plugin,
which is io.quarkus:quarkus-maven-plugin:
the version is very important,
1.11.7.Final-redhat
-00009:create. We will
specify that our new project's group ID is,
org.acme.
The artifact is going to be
called microservice speaker,
the platform group ID,
platform version.
and so those 2 actually
referred to the version of Quarkus
we want to populate in the project.
And the class name we want
to create is going to
be org.acme.conference.speaker.SpeakerResource.
That is going to be an example
REST microservice, just
have to specify that
it's going to be accepting requests
at the /speaker endpoint.
Running this Maven command,
double-checking that
there are no typos first,
but then running this
Maven command will give us
a nice progress report
about applying the code
starts, generating the
source files and report
that a new project has been successfully
generated in the microservice-speaker subdirectory.
So we can just move on over
there and have a look at
the source code generated.
First of all, there is the speaker
resource rest web service,
but it doesn't do anything.
It just says hello out of the box.
We're going to again return
to that one in a moment.
There's an example, but empty
application.properties file.
and there are some tests which
we do not need because they
only test the hello method
which we're going to replace.
We're going to throw it
out of the resource,
so the first thing we can do is
just simply remove the tests.
You can do it from your VSCodium
window as well, of course.
And then use the Palette to add an
extension called resteasy-jsonb.
That's because we want to serialize
and de-serialize JSON data.
We are going to,
so that's the first
extension having been added.
We're also going to add JPA extensions,
the Hibernate extension for Panache,
and the jdbc-h2 driver.
Note that I didn't use
the exact names here,
but they were specific enough for
the command to be an ambiguous.
So both extensions have
also been added to pom xml.
You can do it manually in pom xml as well,
or using VSCodium in the Palatte,
the command palette quarkus add extension.
Right? Let's fix application.properties first.
We're going to add a couple of
datasource related properties.
Note that, and I've deliberately
left this one in the old style,
if you've worked with
Quarkuss previously,
the old-style type of selecting
the database is to specify
which driver to use.
This is no longer present,
as we're about to see a bit later,
when we tried to start the application.
But the jdbc.url, the username,
and the ORM database
generation properties are fine.
Now let's have a look at the
prepared speaker entity.
It's actually not an entity yet,
so copying it from the
prepared directory into
/src/main/java/org/acme/conference/speaker,
we can see that it does have
quite a bit of functionality.
It's got the data fields,
it's got a parameterless constructor.
It's got 2 additional constructors,
1 with the full set of
parameters and 1 which
allows for a speaker with
no biography and no UID
to be created because there
is a place holder for
biography and there is a placeholder
for the generation of a randomUUID.
And then it just has some
getters and setters. That's all.
Additionally, it does
have a 2 string method.
Right?
We're going to fix this.
We're going to add some JPA annotations,
so comparing the original source code
with the changes that I made, there it is,
we made the otherwise bare class Speaker,
an extension of the
PanacheEntity base class.
We made sure that the
biography was not serialized.
That is a requirement
from the exercise,
so we add a JsonbTransient
annotation on the biography field.
There is a couple of
whitespace differences here.
These aren't really changes,
so let's move on to the second
constructor, the short constructor,
which actually allows us to create speaker
without a biography and without
specifying randomUUID.
This time around,
since this constructor
does have an invocation of
a parallel constructor with
all the missing parameters,
we can actually annotate that one with
JsonbCreator annotation and will
be used when de-serializing JSON.
Provided that the JSON has
at least nameFirst, nameLast,
organization, picture,
and twitterHandle parameters.
If it doesn't have that,
then the creation of deserialization
of that JSON will fail.
Again,
just a bunch of whitespace differences,
no real change in
the functionality here,
all the way until the end where we
implement 3 additional methods.
First one is an optional
findByUuid method,
which allows us to search for
speakers if they exist by uuid.
So it does not fail if the
speaker does not exist,
but it does return the first
result because uuid is unique,
it is a key of sorts.
So there's always going to
be only one result for that.
It does return the first result of the list of speakers
that are to use by the
find by uuid methods.
So if there is no result,
then the optional just returns nothing.
The second method is to deleteByUuid.
It simply forwards delegates,
this invocation to the Panache
entities delete method
and finally, there's a search by query.
The query is for firstName
or for lastName,
as it says in the exercise text,
we will be using this JPA
query with the list method,
built-in list method in
the PanacheEntity class.
The upper invocations
make it a
case insensitive search.
So it's going to be either first name
like the query, last name
like the query, and the query
itself converted to uppercase.
Now the only thing here
in the first line is that
if the String parameter to this
method is uninitialized or null,
then we initialize it with a
default value which is UNKNOWN.
So whatever you specify to the search
as the parameter will be uppercased.
If you do not specify anything,
then UNKNOWN will be used as the
search term in this list method.
All right, we have done
with the Speaker class.
Now let's create a new
SpeakerService.java class.
Note that this is not really necessary,
but we are going to use it to
take advantage of dependency
injection in the next step.
As far as anything else is concerned,
all the methods in the SpeakerService.java
just delegations to the entity,
as you can see. This is an @ApplicationScoped
speaker service class,
which makes it a CDI bean.
As far as the methods
are concerned, really,
we just delegate all of the
methods to the Speaker entity,
verbatim as they are.
So no heavy logic here.
As I said, we only created this
class to demonstrate injection.
Right?
So that is what we're going to do next.
We're going to modify
the SpeakerResource,
we are going to remove the hello method,
we are going to make it
RESTful Web Service.
The path annotation was already
added by the initialization process
but we have to make sure that it
both @Consumes and @Produces JSON.
We will be injecting the SpeakerService,
so will be a CDI client.
As I said, remove the hello
method and replace it
with the listAll method
answering to the GET request.
If there is a GET request
at the search endpoint,
we will take the query
parameter called q and
return the results of the query of the
search method in the service method.
Remember, this is the
service method we injected,
simply delegating it
to the speaker entity.
The GET at the Path of uuid
is basically a delegation to
findByUuid or thrown of a
NotFoundException.
There's another POST method,
which takes the post method body and
creates a newSpeaker by invoking
the service.create method and returns the
fully qualified newSpeaker resource.
And finally the DELETE method,
which deletes a speaker by UUID,
which is expected to be
in the path as well,
right. So let's try
executing our application
As I said, I deliberately
left the old style
of setting the datasource parameters in.
As you can see, Quarkus
immediately complains,
it says that quarkus.datasource.url and quarkus.datasource.
driver had been deprecated in Quarkus
1.3 and removed in
1.9.
So we should be using the new
instead of datasource.driver.
We should be using the new form that datasource.db-kind pointing to h2.
Our URL is saved because it's
not quarkus.datasource.url
but rather a quarkus.datasource.jdbc.url.
So this is the correct way of specifying connection properties.
Now when we are trying again,
quarkus:dev starts up
and we can simply send an example
request to the application.
We don't get any responses because we
didn't write any auto loading code,
we do not have an import SQL
file or any of the sort.
But it is a proof of concept,
the application is responding.
The rest of the functionality
will be tested after we stop
the Quarkus runtime and invoke lab
implement-review grade script,
which will actually perform the tests for
the endpoints that we're supposed
to be designed. After it passes,
and of course, after you get an
overall exercise, passing grade,
simply invoke the lab implement-
review finish script,
which will clean everything
up. After you are done
so, join us in the next video,
where we will talk about deploying microservice
based applications. See you there.